[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The
holy grail for many of us
who would like to
have cross-validation
for our practices and
beliefs is exemplified
in Cynthia Sue Larsen's work.
With a physics background
from UC Berkeley,
Cynthia is taking solid
principles in physics
and applying them to moving
beyond time and space
to create changes in our lives,
even instantaneous changes.
Her work is called
"Quantum Jumping."
Everyone is going to love
this story because A,
they can see these
little anomalous things
in their own lives
that have occurred
and you're giving the
science behind it.
I mean, that's what's
wonderful about what you do.
And also, we're going
to go down the rabbit
hole in some really intriguing
things a lot of people
are taking notice of--
>>CYNTHIA SUE LARSON: Thank you.
>>REGINA: --that
just ain't right.
>>LARSON: That's true.
>>REGINA: So first,
give us a little bit
of your own personal background.
I mean, yes, you have
a passion for physics.
It was rigorous study.
But also theology,
let's talk about that.
>>LARSON: Right, I do have
a background in physics,
and that goes back
to the '80s where I
got my degree from UC Berkeley.
And subsequent to that,
I went through a number
of spiritually
transformative experiences.
And that's where I
started noticing anomalies
with reality,
shifting of reality.
And for me, personally,
that was the grand opening
to a much deeper exploration
of spirit and, as you say,
theological studies.
Because, for me
personally, when you
start noticing that there is
a dynamic between our mind,
our hearts, and what
we observe in reality,
then it becomes part
of a spiritual practice
for me to explore that, much
more than let's see how much
money or power or whatever these
trappings of success might be.
Those are nice, but I
think the main thing
needs to have meaning.
It needs to be a
matter of spirit.
So my path is very
much a spiritual path.
But it's not a pushy path.
So I don't push any kind
of spirituality on people,
but instead, prefer
that they look
within their hearts,
their souls and find
the path that's right for them.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
why did you decide
to, instead of just
kind of go with that,
blend the physics back
in in your writings
and give a scientific
basis for it?
What were you trying
to appeal to in people?
>>LARSON: For me, again,
it's our personal lives,
our daily lives.
And especially
for people who are
noticing that
things are changing,
that's where it starts.
It's just noticing that
there are shifts in reality,
that something might be
different than it used to be.
Sometimes people will
notice these things
but dismiss it or discount it.
Like if you lose your keys
or your purse or your coat,
then you might think
you misplaced it,
and even though
you're startled to see
it's in a different
place entirely.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: I was starting to
pay more and more attention
to these things.
So instead of ignoring it, I
was looking for what kind of--
>>REGINA: --validation there
could be for it, which,
of course, we can turn to kind
of what is now becoming kind
of classic quantum physics.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: Right.
And for anybody watching
the show that wants to know,
hasn't really delved into
it, I have interviews
with Dean Radin and others--
>>LARSON: Good.
>>REGINA: --Stuart
Hameroff and so forth.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: So that you can
go into the Gaiam library
and find some of
those interviews.
But for the purposes
of what we're doing,
you're not going to have
to go too deeply into any
of the quantum mechanics
of it all-- maybe just
a basic overview of
what's been discovered
and how it applies to
these anomalous events
in our everyday lives.
>>LARSON: OK, so the
beginning of quantum physics
started in around 1900.
So it's over 100
years later now,
and we might expect that
we would know what's
going on with quantum physics.
But although we have mathematics
to describe what's happening,
there's yet no
agreed upon paradigm
to explain what does it mean.
Do we know-- are there
many worlds superposed
against one another?
Are we living in a hologram?
We don't know which of
the paradigms to choose.
So in my books I
do touch on these--
describe them a little bit.
So what does this whole quantum
thing mean in the first place?
That gets into the
idea of a quanta.
It began when scientists wanted
to know what are the smallest
building blocks of matter.
So of course, if you
remember from childhood,
you hear about molecules,
and within the molecule
there are atoms.
Get going smaller, eventually
you get to the electron
or you get to a proton.
And we were told,
when I was growing up,
that's about as
far as we can go.
But then particle smashers and
accelerators came into being.
So we go a little
farther and find
more of the inner workings.
But the important
takeaway here is
that when you go small
enough into the building
blocks of reality,
you get to a point
where the particle itself,
it's doing strange things--
things that are not what
we would consider normal
by our everyday standards.
And what I mean by that
is there can be tunneling.
A quantum particle can
go through a solid--
>>REGINA: Object.
>>LARSON: Dividing.
It can go right through it.
It can sometimes be seen
as a quantum particle,
and it can also teleport
itself to another place
in another energy state.
>>REGINA: So it blinks
in and out of existence--
>>LARSON: That's right.
>>REGINA: --from the
viewer's point of view.
>>LARSON: Right.
And in 1980, this was
observed with a naked eye.
A lot of people say,
well, Cynthia, you
can't apply these quantum
jumps to our daily lives.
And I say, yes, we can.
>>REGINA: Those are the
building blocks of reality.
We're just a bigger
version of it.
>>LARSON: Exactly.
We can.
And so there's
also entanglement,
which is where you've got
two quantum particles,
and because they're
entangled with one another,
they move in connection
with each other.
So one is spin
up, one spin down.
You know what's going
on when you know what's
happening with one of
them, you can easily
tell what's happening
with the other.
So a great deal
of information can
be contained within a group
of entangled particles.
>>REGINA: Also, I
mean, another area
of study over the last couple of
decades-- our research has been
into the notion that perhaps
the whole notion of dark
matter itself, the
reason they're having
such difficulty in
identifying with that might be
is because it actually exists
within a field of consciousness
as perhaps what is loosely
called spirit, or mind.
And I find that
interesting-- the mind
that is behind the dark
matter, anti-matter, and matter
behind the creation
of the physical.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: And then
you get right back
to philosophical and even
religious debates on that.
>>LARSON: That's right.
We have a lot of questions and
not too many answers right now.
But what I like to do,
even with the uncertainty
that we're dealing
with, is to start
bridging the gap between the
very small in our daily lives
and then the cosmos,
the very large.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
that's very practical.
I loved the way you did it.
And also, I think if we can
just kind of get the model
in our head, even if we just go
down to the atomic level rather
than the quanta.
People have, at least,
have seen models, well,
working models--
not that they're
correct of what
the atom is like--
and realize that everything
we're looking at is space.
There's almost no
matter in anything.
And we're just,
somehow, as you say,
whether it's a
holographic rendering
or whatever of reality,
we exist, and we
have to be bound to these very
same principles they observe
in these colliders, for
example, in the atomic world.
Right?
>>LARSON: That's right.
So some people say
everything is vibration.
Others say everything
is consciousness.
So these are possibly true.
Consciousness does
seem to be primary.
It does seem like the
foundation of everything.
>>REGINA: It does, and also
the famous, now very famous,
old experiments that
observation changes
the outcome of an experiment.
>>LARSON: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So what about when
we're making these kinds
of observations in own lives or
others', what's happening all
the time in this dynamic world.
>>LARSON: And that, I believe,
is the key to understanding
reality as we know it.
And when you see a
discontinuous event,
you see something
that's just shifted.
It could be a spontaneous
remission of disease.
Some people witness that.
They don't know
why that happened.
It could be something appearing
or disappearing or transforming
or transporting.
This is the subject of my
previous book "Reality Shifts."
These kind of things can
happen in our daily lives.
And I'm asking people
to pay attention--
instead of saying, well, I must
have forgotten that, or wow, I
can't believe how that
changed-- to be more mindful,
to be more aware, and more
embracing of the possibility
that we can get these changes.
>>REGINA: And what I'd like to
do in this conversation is talk
about how this phenomena
shows itself, give
some anecdotal kinds of
examples of that, and then
a little later on, go into the
actual techniques of what you
do to start working with
it on a personal level
because I think it's
really important to provide
some kind of proofs,
you know, something
relatable when you're talking
about a quantum world.
Right?
>>LARSON: And the thing
is, we're swimming in it.
So a lot of us don't notice
that we're already in it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: And so that's
part of the problem
that people have, getting
their minds wrapped around it.
We're already in it.
>>REGINA: We're already in it.
So let's talk about
the "it" part of it
that you're saying we
have parallel timelines
and infinite possibilities
that we play out
by choice all the time.
Let's just start at that
place in the conversation.
>>LARSON: OK, so
starting there, it's
good to realize when you
first wake up in the morning,
for example, maybe you
know that you didn't quite
get enough sleep and maybe
you should have gotten more.
You went to bed too late.
But it can make a
difference to tell yourself,
I got enough sleep, even
if you don't think you did.
And this has been
scientifically proven,
so it's basically just the
power of what you might call
"will" to make that choice.
And it can completely
change everything
that happens subsequently.
And if you don't believe
me, try it yourself.
Just try one day where you
wake up and you don't do that.
And then you can feel like,
wow, I didn't get enough sleep.
It becomes sort of
an ongoing excuse.
So that can definitely happen.
This is what I mean
by it's subtle.
These are subtle things.
But when I tell you scientists
have been experimenting
with it, they've been looking
at people who intentionally
are not given enough sleep.
And that group is told there
is a control group and then
the experimental group.
And the control group--
>>REGINA: Is it like sleep
lab so they don't really know
how many hours they've slept?
>>LARSON: So they can track
how many hours the person
has slept.
>>REGINA: And then they'll lie
to the person and say, well,
you got a good
night's sleep, or--
>>LARSON: The person is lying
to themselves basically.
They're being instructed,
you know, tell
yourself I'm going to get a good
night's sleep even though it's
going to be
interrupted constantly.
It's only going to
be four hours long.
It will be just as good
as if it was eight hours
of wonderful, perfect sleep.
So this kind of experiment can
prove to people, like, wow,
how does that happen?
How can you just tell
yourself something?
And I love that experiment
because we can try it at home.
You can see what a
difference it makes.
>>REGINA: Well, in
talking about this,
how does this get into the
notion of parallel timelines?
>>LARSON: OK, so the
idea of the multiverse
and parallel timelines
and all these-- I
like to think of a
holographic multiverse,
so just like fingers on your
hand, it's all connected.
And each one of them could be
a possible parallel reality,
but they're all one.
And so just like pages in a
book or fingers on your hand,
you can feel like, OK,
these are the choices.
So you can imagine,
for example, what
it feels like if
you wake up, and you
didn't have enough sleep.
It could be a cascading effect
of problems throughout the day.
I just keep going back to that
one because it's so practical.
Viewers can try it tonight,
you know, or whatever.
You can try it soon.
See what happens.
And then if you choose
one where you say, OK, I
did get enough sleep,
then how does that
affect your entire day?
It's the concept that these
parallel realities are already
out there, and we are the ones
through our consciousness,
our spirit, our free
choice deciding which
path we're going to be on.
And that's where the
free will comes in
is recognizing, even after
you've done something that
seems like a disaster-- maybe
eaten something that should be
poisonous or that you might
have a bad reaction to-- you
can instantly tell
yourself I'm fine.
It's the same
thing as the sleep.
I'm not recommending
people try that one.
Stick with the sleep one.
>>REGINA: Right, don't poison
yourself just as an experiment.
Right.
>>LARSON: But if it happens,
a great opportunity.
Tell yourself, I'm fine.
What I drank or ate was fine.
I'm not going to be affected.
Everything's fine.
Really believe it.
And this is where people who
are more easily hypnotized
have an advantage.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LARSON: People who meditate
more have an advantage.
And--
>>REGINA: People who
are rationalists?
Difficult?
>>LARSON: It's harder.
So it can be harder, but I
don't think it's impossible.
I think anybody can
learn to do this,
to make that jump to recognize
all these things are out there.
>>REGINA: So it's
going from the notion
that it's not just a
possibility, that it's
a path that already exists.
You simply choose that path.
So possibility is almost
an incorrect word then?
>>LARSON: I like the word.
We have a problem with the
language right now, and--
>>REGINA: Right,
I can understand.
>>LARSON: It's all tied up in--
we don't even have the quantum
paradigm yet, so there's
no agreed upon language,
unfortunately.
I think "possibility" is a
great word because it basically
is showing that all these
possible realities are there
already.
>>REGINA: They exist already.
>>LARSON: In the
realm of possibility.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LARSON: Which is very
similar to the superposed state
of a quantum particle, where it
could be one thing or another.
And so you're just saying,
OK, all these things
are equally, possibly true.
>>REGINA: And what you're
doing with your particular set
of protocols, you
know, this process,
is that you're
saying generally we
see change as it's tied to time.
So change is generally
gradual, sometimes
can be excruciatingly slow
because we believe that change
is tied to time, right?
>>LARSON: I think
that's a big part of it.
>>REGINA: Right,
and you're saying,
no, it's not tied
to time at all.
And talk about that for a bit.
>>LARSON: OK, well, time and
space do generally go together,
but sometimes there can be
anomalies between the two.
I don't even know where
to start with this one.
Do you have something
in mind or--?
>>REGINA: No, to just
help people understand
that it's not tied to time,
and maybe give some examples
and what you talk about
in your book in terms
of instantaneous change.
And I'll share a couple
of examples myself.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: Because
this is important.
>>LARSON: It's very important.
>>REGINA: Because it's
breaking paradigmatic thinking
on a really basic level.
>>LARSON: In my book
"Quantum Jumps",
I share an experience
that my friend went
through when she was camping.
And she was jumping
from boulder to boulder
in an outdoor environment.
She'd had a few drinks, I think.
I'm not sure, but I think so.
>>REGINA: In that reality, she'd
chosen to have a few too many.
>>LARSON: Right.
So she's jumping from
boulder to boulder
and unfortunately
made a misstep.
So she broke one
of her legs, which
meant the trip was pretty
much stopped right there.
She had to go home and
had to see a doctor.
So in the book
"Quantum Jumps", I
describe what
happens next, which
is quite remarkable because
she saw doctors-- some of them
were trainee's, students who
were learning to be doctors.
But in any case,
they took x-rays.
They got photographs that showed
this is a definite broken leg
and sent her home to
just get some rest, which
is where she phoned me.
And she called and
said, oh my gosh,
I can't believe what just
happened and described what
the events.
And what I told her was--
because she had earlier seen
me put my hand over an
injury on my own body,
and it had been bleeding but
then the blood went away.
So I hadn't meant
to demonstrate.
I was trying to be sneaky,
but she had seen me do it.
So I said, remember that when
we had lunch and you saw that.
And she said, yes.
And I said, you don't
have to believe this.
It's enough that I
believe it, but I
believe it's possible
for your broken leg
to heal instantly
or never really
have actually been broken.
You know, we can do that
right now if you want.
She said, oh, yes, because
I'm starting a new job,
and I don't even have
any vacation time,
let alone this is a
terrible way to start.
This is terrible.
I said, OK, let's do it.
So we just, on the phone,
quickly went through a change
in state of mind, just getting
into a blissful state of being,
feeling love,
really getting into,
if you know sort of a theta
wave state, which feels great.
If you don't know
what that is, it's
like when you're falling asleep
or waking up and just feeling
blissed out.
Then during that session
on the phone, she said,
I feel itching inside my leg.
I said, that's good
because that usually
means things are healing.
So the next time she
went into the hospital
they examined her leg, and long
story short, her leg was not
broken at all, no
break whatsoever.
So this is the
example of something
you can do that
seems to have changed
what happened previously.
>>REGINA: So that's
essentially jumping
on the timeline or possibility
where the leg was never
broken to begin with.
>>LARSON: That's one
way to look at it.
>>REGINA: And was
that the suggestion
that you gave when you
were talking with her?
>>LARSON: The suggestion was
would you like it to be healed?
Like, I did a complete-- I
went from a gash in my arm
to no blood at all--
no wound, no injury.
And I said, why don't we
just do that for your leg
so there's no break?
And she said fine.
But then it became difficult
because she had taken,
at that point, a day or two
off work of the new job.
They didn't know why she
was getting treatment
for a condition
that didn't exist.
>>REGINA: Didn't exist, yeah.
>>LARSON: But that was a much
easier problem to deal with.
>>REGINA: Than a broken leg.
>>LARSON: Than a broken leg.
>>REGINA: Truly.
Now, does this
work retroactively,
say, on something that
happened long ago?
>>LARSON: Sometimes
I've heard from people
who have had success with
that, and it is possible.
And for example,
lost items can return
to you that might have
been lost a long time ago.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: And it's like
they've never been gone at all.
>>REGINA: What about
healing though?
>>LARSON: Healing, I believe
that's possible as well.
It seems like there's
definitely a kind
of a handshake between
the future and the past.
>>REGINA: Right, and it's really
unpredictable as how that's
going to play out, right?
>>LARSON: Well, it can be.
When you think of
the entanglements
and think of all the
connections we have to one
another, to this
consensus reality, then
it really matters who
your core group is,
and the people
who really believe
that things can be as good as
they can get and really wish
that for you.
This is where it's
that spiritual journey.
Rather than me
first and I'm going
to claw my way to the
top, much better if it's
a win-win attitude.
And and if you have a group of--
>>REGINA: And support,
mutual support.
>>LARSON: Yes, if you have
an inner circle of friends
who love you, who
genuinely care for you, who
want the best for you,
makes a huge difference.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And I'm just thinking more
on maybe consciousness
level in terms of, for
example, something that's
happened long-- because
everybody listening or watching
can think, jeez, I wonder if I
could finally heal that thing.
>>LARSON: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: But, that thing as
opposed to a newly broken leg,
there's not much
attached to that yet.
There's not much of a story
that's been built around it.
>>LARSON: Good point.
>>REGINA: Where the thing
that you want to get rid
of that's been around forever
may have a decade or two
decades of stories--
>>LARSON: Emotional
stuff piled on top.
>>REGINA: --re-entrenched
that time line.
>>LARSON: It's still
not impossible.
It's still not
impossible, I believe,
because it's just a
matter of shaking loose
from all of that accumulation
of belief that this is a thing
and I'm stuck with
it, whatever that is.
>>REGINA: Right.
No, yeah, I find
that fascinating.
I was going to say there
are a couple of anecdotes
that I'd toss in.
And one of them was a man I
know whom I've interviewed
a few times as well.
It taught me this
particular-- he just
got this head, you know,
because he's always
listening to his guidance that
he needed to share with me
right away, this particular
form of healing that's
instantaneous, right?
>>LARSON: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And I thought,
sure, I'd be happy to learn.
And I got this urgency--
I need to learn it now.
It was two days later.
And he said come on over.
And he showed me nothing but
a paragraph on a paper that
was the protocol.
And the next day, a very,
very close friend of mine
called me and was in the
middle of having a stroke.
And I found that on repeated
occasions, by applying this,
not only did the stroke go way,
everything reversed itself.
There weren't even
blood markers on it
once, you know, she was in
the hospital-- to the point
where it's, again, are
you making this up?
Did something really
happen to you?
And her son said, yeah,
I just picked her up.
Her leg wasn't working.
Her speech was slurred.
>>LARSON: There
was no trace of it.
>>REGINA: There was no
trace, no trace at all.
And this has happened with
a few different people--
usually something that dramatic
and in the moment where
there's no story at all yet.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: You know, and
so I've seen first hand
how it jumps into a timeline
where it never even happened.
>>LARSON: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Because there
should be blood markers--
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: --if
you've had a stroke.
>>LARSON: Right, there should.
Or you'd expect them.
But we're telling people you
don't need to expect that.
>>REGINA: No, no,
you don't need to.
You know what's
interesting, I want
to get into a couple
of-- we're going
to go down a really fun, juicy
rabbit hole in a minute, OK?
But before that I wanted to just
point out that it's believed--
I mean, certain people I've
interviewed who certainly
shared this information--
that the government, the more
shadowy aspects of the
government, are fully aware
of this.
And they're fully aware of
this ability to jump timelines.
And even blink a person
in and out of reality
just like happens
with particles, right?
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: And I mean, are
you aware of some of this?
>>LARSON: I'm aware
that that must be true.
And when I look for research
articles to write my books,
I notice certain kinds of
government funding being
recognized on the article.
And then when it
gets really juicy,
you don't see it anymore.
>>REGINA: You start seeing
DOD, DARPA, and beyond.
And then you wonder,
this is interesting.
>>LARSON: And then
it vanishes, right?
>>REGINA: How's
that being applied?
The money's following that.
>>LARSON: Yes, they
absolutely know,
and they're going to rely upon
this exact kind of information
with artificial intelligence
and quantum computers.
So things that
we're talking about,
to get the kind of effects
will be part of artificial
intelligence and quantum
computing.
So I believe that this
information should
be available to everyone.
That's why I'm grateful--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LARSON: I'm so glad Elon
Musk started the OpenAI
project that he announced
just recently this last year.
That's excellent
because this is not
something that should belong to
a government or a corporation.
It's too dangerous.
>>REGINA: It is.
And not only that,
the information
is being sequestered for
things like military advantage,
you know, strategic control
over resources, and so forth.
>>LARSON: Right.
So what I'm talking
about specifically
is things where devices
and artificial intelligence
can use things like
the quantum Zeno effect
to you just keep check,
check, check, check,
checking like you're OCD
to get the answer you want,
and you can kind
of lock a reality,
like a timeline in place.
And you can use EPR steering to
affect someone's consciousness
outside of your own.
These are the things
I'm talking about that
should be public domain.
>>REGINA: So Elon Musk
is trying to take it
more into public domain?
>>LARSON: He is responding
to the same concern
that Stephen Hawking and
Bill Gates have voiced--
that artificial
intelligence is, perhaps,
our biggest threat to humanity,
much more than anything
we've ever seen.
And these are
gentlemen who should
know the difference
between something that's
just, ah, forget about it.
You're blowing up-- making a
mountain out of a mole hill.
But no, they're accurately
assessing the situation.
These are experts
in their fields,
and I would agree with them.
And so I think by opening
it up to let people
know what's out there, yes,
there's a risk of terrorism,
but I think I believe in the
inner good of all people.
And I think when we get
back to that spiritual basis
and it's not about
consumerism, it's not
about one country
has to be the 1%
and everyone else has to suffer.
This is where it
becomes spiritual again.
We need to care for one another.
It needs to be bigger
than any country,
any government, any business.
>>REGINA: I agree with you
because the only conversations
I've had around it have all
been for military advantage
and economic advantage-- jumping
timelines, placing people
in future realities, bringing
back-- In one case of Andrew
Basiago-- and I know he's a
controversial figure-- but when
I sat with him, I certainly
got that he has either
had these experiences or
in an alternate reality
he's had these
experiences for sure.
And talking about how in these
programs-- a lot of them out
of New Mexico and
such, some of them out
of southern California, a
place on Sepulveda Boulevard--
they take these candidates,
these people that
have been groomed for this,
and they jump them in time,
gather article headlines
in newspapers and such,
and bring them back
into this reality
to see how something played out
10 years hence, for example,
or five years or three months,
what is being reflected back
via the media so
they can see how
a particular strategy that
they're going to implement
did or didn't work
and then adjust
the strategy before the effect.
>>LARSON: What I'd rather do
is wake people up so that we
the people around the world,
every country, every nation,
every religious group--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LARSON: --basically
understands
that we together are wishing
for the best for all concerned.
To me, that's the
way out of this.
>>REGINA: I totally agree.
>>LARSON: Everything else
is going to be a dead end.
>>REGINA: It is.
And the power of that many
people having an agreed upon
outcome can trump even the
most sophisticated technology
that's been sequestered
away in the dark.
>>LARSON: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I mean, I think
that's, on a large scale,
what's in it for us
as a civilization.
>>LARSON: And what it
requires individually
is that each one of us has
to give up our own pet things
that we love.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And like to bitch about.
>>LARSON: And like
to bitch about.
We have to give
up our complaints.
We need to give up what we
feel, like, downtrodden, how
we've been abused, how we've
been subjected to things.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, so let's go back, besides
the military implications,
this is kind of a fun
one, interesting one.
You wrote about a woman named
Linda in the pub in London.
>>LARSON: Oh yes.
>>REGINA: And the
sign on the doors,
and tell us about her
experience and then
what happened when she went
back and then the revelation.
>>LARSON: I'm trying
to remember that.
I get thousands of stories.
>>REGINA: OK, I can give you
a-- I'll jog your memory.
She was sitting in front of
a particular pub in London,
and it had a screaming red door.
And she thought, wait, this is
a historical preservation area.
That is totally out of
sync with what should be
allowed in this neighborhood.
>>LARSON: Which is
why she noticed it.
>>REGINA: Why she noticed it.
>>LARSON: Otherwise it
wouldn't have stood out.
>>REGINA: And she
really examined it.
>>LARSON: Yes.
And then when she came
back, having thought like,
wow, that was just
all wrong, then
it's as if the colors had
always been this other color.
>>REGINA: They were the
original historical color
which was green.
>>LARSON: So she
went in and looked--
>>REGINA: Muted.
>>LARSON: And talked to the
proprietor, thinking, wow,
they must have changed
it back so quickly.
How did they even
do that so fast?
Because it wasn't
that much time.
>>REGINA: Cause it looked worn.
>>LARSON: Yeah.
It looked old.
It didn't look fresh.
She spoke to them, and they
had not changed anything.
They hadn't painted
it recently so--
>>REGINA: And they said
it had a different name.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: The pub had a
different name than the week
or so before with the red door.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: But it was
the same location.
It was the same pub.
>>LARSON: It's the same spot.
The same location.
>>REGINA: And she said, how
long has the pub had this name?
And he said, 350 years.
And she's-- go ahead.
>>LARSON: Well,
this is an example
of this when you talk about
timelines, if you want
to call it space timelines,
possible reality lines,
then she obviously jumped to
one which was very similar.
She didn't notice other
differences in that reality
aside from the pub changing.
But the way it changed, it
looked like it had always
been that way.
And I've seen
similar things also.
So I believe her
story because it's
so similar to things
that have happened to me.
>>REGINA: I've had
that experience too.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: So what is
actually happening?
Why would there have
been a timeline where
they change the color of
the door, which seemed
such an insignificant thing.
There has to be thought,
individually or collectively,
that would create that
alternate timeline, right?
So could it be simply the fancy
of the owner or previous owner
saying, you know, I think we'll
paint that door red one day,
and I'd like to change the name.
And they debate
it, and boom, you
have now a potential
alternate timeline that's
been popped into existence.
>>LARSON: Well, when you
look at the traveler, that
would be her consciousness.
So her consciousness
made that jump.
So she's the one who had that
thought-- this color is really
off.
It can be just such
a simple thought
when you're running enough
energy, you meditate enough,
and you're in that
lucid state of living
that you can have these
kind of experiences
because the higher vibration
you get, the more likely
it is that you're
going to notice
that a simple random thought--
>>REGINA: So she created
the alternate timeline
because she was objecting to the
color of the original door she
saw?
>>LARSON: That's what I would
guess that that would be true.
When I get these
reports from people
and they share their
anecdotal evidence
of some sort of
reality shift, I like
to find out what were they
thinking at that time.
Sometimes there's a connection.
Sometimes it seems random.
But it later prompts
a whole series
of events that wouldn't
have happened otherwise.
>>REGINA: It certainly
prompts the notion
that there is some
component of this being
a holographic reality,
and we're somehow--
we're the orchestrator
of it, the creator of it.
>>LARSON: We can be active
operators within it.
We can be agents of
change when we recognize
that we have that ability
and keep ourselves powered up
by eating good food
and getting enough rest
and really understanding
it's the consciousness that
can make the change.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
I find that fascinating.
Really beyond fascinating.
It's mind-boggling
because that would
mean there are billions
of potential realities
at any given time that are
available to all of us.
>>LARSON: That's right.
>>REGINA: And the
only thing standing
in our way of
those participating
in one of those
alternate timelines
is our belief systems.
>>LARSON: And it runs totally
counter to advertising
and what you see when they
push products and things
because it's very different.
>>REGINA: Very different.
OK, so let's talk about
the Mandela Effect
and also other living, dead,
dead, living, Schrodinger's cat
realities and what has
come to your awareness,
other people's awareness, what
is more well-known in terms
of media and such.
And let's go down
that rabbit hole.
>>LARSON: OK, this
Mandela Effect
is getting a lot
of media attention
just in the last few
years, and it's taking off
in 2015 especially, 2016.
Because what's happening is
a lot of people back in 2010
were talking about how they had
noticed that Nelson Mandela had
been-- he was alive at that
time in 2010, but most of them
remembered that he
had died in the 1980s
at some point, when
he was incarcerated.
And this is a
discussion that came
to the attention of a
blogger named Fiona Broome.
And then she made a
public blog post about it
and started a website about it,
which is how the term Mandela
Effect was coined.
This exact same phenomenon
had been reported by me
in my book "Reality
Shifts" in 1999
where I was talking
about Larry Hagman.
Because at the time the book
was published, he was alive,
but he had died previously.
And a lot of people,
myself included,
remember that he had died.
A surgery hadn't worked out
properly, and he'd passed away.
He was the actor from "Dallas."
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: And I got fascinated
by this whole phenomenon.
I'd started doing
surveys with subscribers
to my "RealityShifters"
newsletter
and asked them which people
they remembered having died
and then were alive again.
And we got lots of people
mentioned including
Captain Kangaroo
from TV-- if you
remember that
children's character--
Larry Hagman, a
lot of people also
remembered Jane
Goodall who I hope
is still alive as we broadcast.
>>REGINA: Well, let's
talk about that.
Let's talk about
what happened there.
>>LARSON: OK, so
with Jane Goodall,
I remember-- and a lot of people
remember and saw books and TV
announcements, front
page news coverage--
that she had died right after,
if you remember, Dian Fossey
with "Gorillas in the Mist."
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>LARSON: Just boom, boom.
Within about a one- or
two-month period, both of them
had died violent deaths.
And that got my attention.
And it also made me feel angry.
I felt like, who is killing
the world's great primate
researchers?
It really upset me.
>>REGINA: Which gets into
conspiracy theory then.
>>LARSON: Yeah, I was
concerned about it.
But then I didn't think a lot
more about it for a long time.
And then sometime,
I don't know when,
maybe the '90s or so, I
noticed, wow, she's alive again.
Thank goodness.
I'm so grateful.
>>REGINA: Most people
wouldn't accept it
that way to say, oh,
she's alive again.
Good.
We got on a new timeline.
For most people, what
do you mean she's alive.
She's dead.
>>LARSON: Right.
But she's very much alive.
And this is a great example
of, it's not just me,
I think a lot of people love
some of our celebrities so much
that it's possible that
we need them, and it's--
>>REGINA: Kind of love
them back into that
timeline where they still exist.
>>LARSON: You can't go.
>>REGINA: Love them
back into reality.
>>LARSON: As if
they've never gone.
Yes.
>>REGINA: And with
the Mandela effect,
when you think of Nelson
Mandela, one way to look at it
could be-- you know, a very
obvious way someone might say,
especially if they are
into conspiracy-- is that,
well, they just reported
that he was dead.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: But that
doesn't explain
why people remember seeing
it in their textbooks--
that they'd go to school and
they'd see it right there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LARSON: They remember that.
A lot of people don't just
remember the news reports,
they remember all this other
stuff too, and that's changed.
They remember details
about the estate problems
about him having died in jail.
And then there was a scuffle
with his estate and his widow
and getting involved
with the government.
And people, of course, their
hearts went out to the widow
so it became an international
kind of a thing.
And now, that's not any part
of today's history at all.
So it's only in our
memories, those of us
who did remember that
there was something
different in that case.
≫>REGINA: So if you
were-- and I know you
can't-- but if you were going
to try to explain that--
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: --why that happened
in that way, for example,
and I know you can't, but
if you were going to give it
the good ole' college try,
what would you say is happening
in, say, a scenario like that?
>>LARSON: Well, I think a
large part of the realization
that this is happening
is to wake us up,
to recognize that
consciousness is who we are.
I think that is the
biggest takeaway.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
>>LARSON: And I think that if
we skip that part and think, oh,
I'm going to harness
this and use it
for my own short-term
interests, then
you've missed the whole point.
Because the whole point is
that we are consciousness,
and we are having a human
physical experience.
And when we care
enough to know what
is the true nature of
reality, which is something
I care about, then
we get what you
might call weird experiences
that don't necessarily
explain themselves.
But they're like
puzzle pieces, and you
can start putting it together
and start recognizing that if
someone who was
clearly dead that I
know for sure that it was
reported through reputable news
media.
We're talking CNN,
"New York Times."
This is not fly-by--
>>REGINA: He has died.
Right.
>>LARSON: Definitely.
It was on TV.
I believe it.
And there's all the fallout
that happened subsequently.
And now suddenly, that's
not the way he died at all.
He actually walked
out of jail, went on
to become the president.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: None of that
had happened before,
and now this is what happened.
So to me, it's a huge wake-up
call for all of us who are
experiencing changes
in movie dialogue--
that's another part
of the Mandela effect,
or reality shifts-- where if
you're watching the movie "Snow
White" and you remember the
scene in the movie where
the queen looks in the
mirror, she says something--
>>REGINA: I remember her
saying, mirror, mirror,
on the wall, who's the
fairest of them all?
>>LARSON: That's
what I remember.
But if you watch any
version of the movie that's
official right now, it says,
magic mirror on the wall.
And also with the movie
"Field of Dreams,"
we were talking about
that, if you build it--
>>REGINA: If you build
it, they will come.
>>LARSON: They will come.
Now, if you watch the
movie, if you build it,
he will come, which doesn't
even make as much sense.
>>REGINA: Whoa, I got
chills on that one.
>>LARSON: Yes.
So these are indicators to us
to think about what is going on.
And rather than look
at a conspiracy, which
is where a lot of
people go with this,
I would rather take
it to consciousness.
And also look to the
indigenous first nations
people who also actually
talk about this as well.
So you can look at science,
you can look at ancient history
with indigenous peoples,
and start seeing, OK, it
makes more sense for this to
be a quantum kind of a world
that we live in.
Quantum reality-- that
things can change suddenly.
They do.
And when you
experienced it, instead
of dismissing it
or discounting it,
and children
experience this a lot,
so if you're a
parent or a teacher,
listen to what the
children are saying.
>>REGINA: No, mommy, I
really did do my homework.
It was sitting
right on the desk.
I can't find it.
>>LARSON: I'm talking about,
how come our hot water handle
turns the other way now?
And you're like,
oh, don't be silly.
It didn't change.
Why is that picture in
the hallway different?
Daddy used to be on
the other side of me.
Now, we've switched places.
Listen to them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: I'm talking
about that stuff.
>>REGINA: No, yeah,
I was teasing.
Yes, of course.
Well, and you mentioned
earlier in the show,
finding lost things, things
that disappear and so forth.
And it reminded me
when I read that, I
thought I have to bring
this up because it
happened at Gaiam twice.
I used to have a little office
here in the main building.
And so I'd come in.
But it wasn't mine.
It was a guest office,
so whoever was here
would be able to use the
desk and the telephone
and kind of take their stuff in.
And then when they leave,
somebody else comes in.
So it had a lot of
traffic going through it.
And one day, I got
home from work,
and I thought I knew I had
pulled something over my head,
and I was missing one
of my gold earrings.
And I thought, oh,
it's in the office.
I lost it at Gaiam
in the office.
And it has to be there.
And so I went back.
No, it's not anywhere, right?
>>LARSON: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so a few
months later-- now,
it was also vacuumed
every night.
>>LARSON: Right.
>>REGINA: A few months later,
I come in to work one day,
and right in the middle of the
floor was the gold earring.
>>LARSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I
went to the janitor,
and I said, Robert,
you do vacuum.
Did you, I mean, did you
find my gold earring?
I was totally
flummoxed, you know.
He said, I haven't
seen an earring.
He said, yeah, I
vacuum it every day.
So anyway, it was just
lying there in the middle.
It happened with
another object too
on my desk that had disappeared
and ended up right back there,
you know, again weeks later.
>>LARSON: Right.
And these reports
are extremely common.
Lots of people
over the years have
been giving me these anecdotal
stories which I believe.
It's happened to me too.
And when it happens,
again, you're
thinking, what is going on here.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: But if the takeaway
for me is it is consciousness.
You just recognize there are
lots of possible realities.
Things are not necessarily gone.
History is not the final say.
You know, facts can and
sometimes do change.
And a lot of this
goes a long way
to explaining how we live in
such a fine-tuned universe.
>>REGINA: And on that
note, what has finally
happened with me is--
I mean, sometimes
you just misplace things,
and we all do that.
But I don't even worry
about it anymore.
It's just like it
doesn't matter.
It'll show up.
And, you know, especially when
you go looking for something,
and you've looked
repeatedly in the same place
and it's not there.
And then three days later,
it's in that exact place
you've gone through repeatedly.
So we know now,
don't worry about it.
For whatever reason,
it jumped timelines.
It's back, and OK, thank you.
>>LARSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: You know, I just
look at it as thank you.
OK, and we need to go now
into the actual methodology
you use because there are
some certain basic tenets that
need to be in place.
And one of them, people
will find interesting.
>>LARSON: OK.
>>REGINA: So let's
start with the process.
>>LARSON: OK, well, for getting
into this quantum jumping
mindset, the people who are
really good at it would be
meditators, people
who meditate, they
have an edge,
people who have gone
through a near-death experience,
definitely very good at this,
really good at it.
And in addition to
that, lucid dreamers.
So if you're following
what's in common
with these groups of people,
to me that's interesting.
What do they have in common?
What are they doing
that's so similar?
And we've been talking
about it already.
What starts happening,
as you meditate,
you start becoming aware that
you are not your problems.
You are not your thoughts.
You're not your feelings.
You're an observer.
You get a feeling of
that consciousness level.
This is also what
near-death experiencers
get when they go through their
experience and lucid dreamers
as well.
And so it gives you a
different relationship
with physical reality.
So the way to get to
that state of mind
is to really relax, to just
get into a state of awareness
that you are consciousness.
It may be hard to believe.
So for someone who's watching
and they think I don't know how
to even go there, then
start a meditation practice
is a good way to get started.
Because you really
need to detach.
You need to not be so
certain that you are simply
in only your physical body.
Because to the degree you
cling onto that is a lot harder
to get the kind of effect.
>>REGINA: Well, when this
is just an expression
of the other aspect of self.
>>LARSON: Exactly.
Yeah.
So that's really important--
to really get detached
and then to get to
really a happy place.
That's where also
the meditators,
near-death experiencers,
usually, and lucid dreamers
often tend to go, which
is that place of feeling.
If you've had it, then you
know what it feels like.
It's just this rush of bliss.
It feels radiant.
It feels all-encompassing.
It Feels like you are a state
of awareness that is timeless.
It's just eternal.
It's infinite.
And from that place,
there's nothing to fear.
There's a sense of well-being,
and it is naturally a byproduct
of certain kinds of meditation.
A gateway is meditation.
It's a good one.
It's a good way to get there.
And then from there, from
that place of all-being,
then you can realize,
OK, I'm all one,
but all these different
choices are out there.
And have faith that
whatever may seem
like it's unfolding around you,
may seem crazy or challenging,
that you can either
choose specifically.
You can ask what's
the best choice?
What should I best do right now?
How can I best live my life?
And you will be guided.
By aiming high for
what's best, what's
optimal for all
concerned, because you
know in your heart what's good.
This is the way I prefer
people to actually choose
which path to take
rather than OK, here's
the shortcut to millions
of dollars tomorrow.
That could be a mistake.
You know, I'm not
saying it is, but I
would prefer that people
aim even higher than what's
in their short-term.
≫>REGINA: Yes, what am
I here to do to contribute?
What am I uniquely
qualified to contribute?
>>LARSON: How can I be
in service to the world?
How can I help everyone?
That's the key.
And that's where the
happiness comes from.
So the steps again would
be take a deep breath.
You know, do some kind
of meditative practice.
>>REGINA: Breathe.
>>LARSON: Yeah, breathe.
That can be a meditation.
Start observing your thoughts.
Just watch your thoughts come.
Watch them go.
Just get into that
breathing pattern.
Deeper.
You want to breathe
to your lower abdomen.
Deep, full breaths.
Slow it down.
And just become
aware increasingly
that you can watch these
thoughts come and go.
And then hopefully--
this is a practice
that you should do for a week or
two to get the feeling for it.
And then after you've gotten
to that place of feeling like,
I think I'm getting
into that state that
feels like between
dreaming and waking up.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: That's the goal.
You want to get into
that theta state.
And when you can live your life
like a waking dream, you know,
that's where you start seeing
reality shifts every day,
lots of them.
And they can be quite fun.
They can be good.
And it makes it playful.
It's hard to explain, but it
really does feel terrific.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yes.
And then finally, you put
your very clear, a very clear,
picture image, feeling, of
what it is you wish to jump to.
>>LARSON: When you get that.
And so it might come to you.
You might have already had one.
So they come from-- you might
think like, that was my image.
I've been storyboarding it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LARSON: You know, created it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: OK, that's fine.
Or maybe it came to
you because you're
doing-- I prefer
to actually work
with the participatory style
where you say, OK, show me
what's best for me.
Let's bring that to me.
Let me be in the
highest service.
I don't even know
what that looks like,
but I'm going there.
You know, I want to do it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: I like that
kind of excitement.
But it's whatever.
So either clear
picture, either way.
And then, yes, you
say, that is it,
and you act as if,
which is the advice
from American psychologist
William James.
>>REGINA: Fake it
till you make it.
>>LARSON: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Once you decide that,
that's how you start living.
>>LARSON: That's right.
>>REGINA: And it
becomes your reality.
>>LARSON: It does.
>>REGINA: Yes, and one
of the things you also
put in the book was that
in that feeling of bliss
you're talking about
that that fueled,
feels that you also
use the word love.
>>LARSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so for people
whose lives have become
very dim-- you know,
their own lights
become dim to
themselves, they're
cut off from
themselves-- that even
to be able to go
back into a moment
where you felt love for someone
or an experience or a pet
even that you need to conjure
up that love inside yourself
again and let that
be that bliss.
>>LARSON: Yes.
You need to kind of
seed it, if you will,
kind of get it started again.
>>REGINA: Cause that's the fuel.
>>LARSON: Because
often when you need
these quantum jumps so much,
you're not in a good place.
It might be a very dark
moment, and maybe you
don't have the
friends or the family
to help pull you through it.
Some people don't.
So that's when you can
absolutely trust and have faith
that you can make that
time travel journey back
to a favorite moment that you
remember and really feel it.
The key is feeling it.
>>REGINA: Feeling it.
Exactly.
And then the desire that has
to fuel as well that love
and that bliss or joy with
the companionship of desire
for that outcome.
Because desire in a
lot of different-- most
religious traditions-- desire
really gets knocked about.
And yet there's nothing in
the universe that creates,
that exists, without desire.
>>LARSON: Right.
Desire can get a bad rap
from the lower chakra issues
that a lot of
people have with it.
Again, just short-sighted
me, me, me thinking.
But if that's not the
problem-- if your desire is
for world peace, if your desire
is to see the environment come
back into balance,
and people get along
with love and integrity,
if that's your desire,
that's good.
>>REGINA: And that will give
it some rocket fuel behind it.
>>LARSON: It gives it a lot.
And so the more of
us that really feel
that kind of passion-- and
there are young people that
feel that passion.
We were talking about
politics earlier.
We've seen a lot of people with
that kind of burning passion.
I'd like to see
them continue that.
You know, to keep
envisioning a better world
because we absolutely
can create it,
and it comes from that desire.
>>REGINA: Are you
feeling that shift
among the millennials
in particular right now?
>>LARSON: I am, yes.
There's a great deal
of wisdom there.
And we may look at it
from our generation
as, well, they seem flighty.
But I don't see it that way.
>>REGINA: No, I don't either.
>>LARSON: I see that they're
more on track with what
the spiritual core
values are than many
of their materialistic
parents and prior generations.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah,
I see that as well.
I mean, every generation
has its challenges.
And everyone, no
matter where you are,
has it's kind of slackers
and, you know, naysayers.
But in general, I think
that tone is there.
>>LARSON: Very much.
Yes.
>>REGINA: And yet,
at the same time,
when we're talking
about this process,
most processes do have
certain little pitfalls.
You know, there are little areas
that must be kind of at least
mulled over and overcome.
And talk about that
and what can stand
in the way of this happening.
>>LARSON: OK.
Lots of things.
We've talked about
some of them already.
So I'll review the
ones we've brought up
which have to do
with making a mistake
or assuming that we are
just the physical body
and that something that
has happened is done
and that's now a fact.
To overcome that,
you can get current
on what's happening
with quantum computing
or read the book
"Quantum Jumps."
You need to educate
yourself and see
this is not the way
this new quantum age is
going to be operating at all.
So we need to change our
assumptions and our thinking.
And our children
are learning-- we
talked about the new generation
coming up, the millennials.
They're playing the
game "Minecraft,"
which has a qCraft
component, which is free.
And it's for all ages.
So you can get on
that "Minecraft" game,
get the free qCraft.
Play with it.
Start noticing that you can have
entangled building blocks that
are working together.
You can have teleportation.
You can have superposition of
states, all these things I've
talked about, but you can start
feeling it within the game.
>>REGINA: I'm writing this down.
OK.
>>LARSON: And that game was
designed by a programmer
so that they can build the next
generation of quantum computers
because we still
are working-- we're
looking for that holy
grail of the quantum
paradigm, the holy grail
of how we can get quantum
logic to make sense to us.
It's so different than
Boolean binary logic.
We no longer have a
world of true and false.
That's gone.
As the quantum age begins, we're
moving into true and false,
and not true/not false.
It's what you might think
of as fourfold logic.
It's what they know it in Asia.
So it's very different.
It's recognizing that there
are many possibilities that
are already there.
And things are not black
and white, cut and dry.
>>REGINA: Let's look
at that for a moment.
I'm curious.
You just triggered a curiosity
in me about "Minecraft."
And a lot of this goes
into conspiracy too,
but it also has useful
purposes, I suppose.
When we look at phenomena
such as Google and Facebook
and such where you have a
lot of data mining going on,
to be able to appeal to whatever
it seems to be the emerging
human consensus in
any given nanosecond,
and then you can
directly appeal to it
or change it or manipulate it.
That's a dark side of what this
kind of technology and data
gathering can do.
And you just brought
up "Minecraft,"
which is highly creative
and involving children.
What do you see
as that potential,
and what do you know
about the creator of that?
>>LARSON: I don't
know too much about it
except that those were people
who needed quantum programmers
for the DUA of computers
that NASA and Google had
spent millions of dollars on.
And they didn't have
people who understood how
to program quantum computers.
I've programmed
classical computers.
That's a whole different
thing because there you've
got logic gates.
You also have logic gates
in quantum computers,
but it's different.
There's more stuff going on.
It's kind of like
classical reality
is a very, very special
case of the bigger quantum
reality, which is how
I see quantum logic.
So it's like we've
been preparing
to work in a very
special case environment
when we program computers.
But what do we do
when the computer
can imagine all these
possibilities simultaneously?
>>REGINA: When you have all
these little young minds that
are creating-- they're
interfacing with it
and making their own
choice points within that.
>>LARSON: They're
going to learn.
It's kind of like
playing with Lincoln Logs
like you might have
played with or LEGOs
like our kids played with.
And now they've got this
whole "Minecraft" with qCraft.
They can start thinking
in a quantum way.
It's a whole new world.
>>REGINA: So this
starts taking them
beyond the limitations
of time and space.
>>LARSON: Well, I think you
could say it that way, but--
>>REGINA: But it's
become-- right now
it looks like a virtual
reality, so to speak.
And most people have a
divide between reality
and virtual reality.
But because they're so
young, is it possible
that their own psyche
is crossing over
to these virtual realities
or it's all the same now.
Create what you wish.
>>LARSON: I think
what's happening
is they understand that the
possibilities are there.
And that in a
quantum environment,
you can entertain all the
possibilities until you
select the optimal choice.
That's what quantum
computers do.
That's what nature does.
We didn't get into
photosynthesis and all.
>>REGINA: Go ahead
and talk about that.
We have a few minutes.
>>LARSON: Oh, good.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LARSON: So in
"Quantum Jumps," I
describe something
we know for sure--
that plants are
absolutely using a quantum
process to photosynthesize.
And they attain
efficiencies of operation
in the 90%, which is remarkable.
Because when we work
with photovoltaic cells,
we don't get something
like 95% or 96% efficiency.
Even if you have
solar power, there's
a lot of loss along the way.
So what are plants doing?
It looks like what they're
doing when you look at the way
they take a ray of
sunshine that hits the leaf
and they transport
that ray of sunshine,
it's conveyed through a network.
And you can think
of it as, like,
the freeway systems or
maybe downtown New York
City, a traffic jam situation.
How do you take that
little bit of energy
and transport it
to where it needs
to be stored within the plant?
That's the efficiency.
And the way they solve that--
because it is like solving
a rush hour traffic problem.
And you can imagine
being in New York City.
You call a taxi.
You need to get across town.
Is it possible that that
taxi driver could always
just pick the best path and
get you there that's just
like the blink of an eye?
Probably not.
And we've had experiences
with taxis in New York City,
and that's not going to happen.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
Right.
>>LARSON: We know that's
not going to happen.
So what are the plants doing?
And they're
absolutely doing what
MIT researchers confirmed is
known as a quantum random walk.
So just in a couple
of short movies,
they go as far as possible
toward their destination.
It's like they're
almost already there.
>>REGINA: So it seems
that the X factor there
is another timeline
of consciousness
that they're kind of popping
between in the photosynthesis
process.
And the intelligence
is always taking them
to the most efficient place.
>>LARSON: Yeah, it's kind
of like they can feel it,
if you want to put it that way.
Like a plant just kind of
knows the way it does things.
And it's not it's not
thinking in the way we
would call it "thinking."
Yet, it's doing something
none of our computers--
>>REGINA: It's being impressed
by a level of consciousness
beyond them.
>>LARSON: Right.
So we have a new field of
quantum biology springing up
that it contains things
like this and also organisms
that can genetically
mutate instantaneously--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>LARSON: --almost
impossibly to exactly what
they needed to mutate.
How did they know which
one, and how did they
do that so quickly?
These are mysteries.
But our children
playing qCraft are
going to start getting
a feeling for it.
And that is the greatest gift.
They're going to start
understanding, like, this
is the way the world works.
>>REGINA: OK, so since
we're down that rabbit hole,
and we have a few
minutes left, what
about the notion of
disappearing species
because I personally believe
they're kind of blinking out
into another field perhaps.
>>LARSON: That's possible.
>>REGINA: Not necessarily just
dying out because of pollutants
and so forth.
>>LARSON: And they
might come back.
I talked about--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>LARSON: --indigenous--
I touched on this earlier.
I researched the
Hopi Indians who
have a word "tunatya" or
"tunatyava," which means
"comes true, being hoped for."
And they believe that each time
we get to one of these epical
points-- we know we're
in it right now--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>LARSON: --then we will see
animals come back to life
that might have
been dead before.
You know, that can happen.
In other words, they are
aware that this sort of thing
can happen.
Just because something is
dead, like the Mandela effect,
can a whole species come back?
Sure.
>>REGINA: I think so.
>>LARSON: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Or they can blink out,
go somewhere else for a while,
and they can blink back in.
>>LARSON: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Depending
on whether it's
to their desire or advantage
to be here at any given time.
>>LARSON: Right.
I think we need the
diversity of species,
so I would vote for some
of them coming back.
>>REGINA: But can't
new species be
blinking in at the same time?
>>LARSON: They do.
>>REGINA: They do
discover new species.
≫>LARSON: And when you
look at the archaeological
paleontological records, you'll
see that Darwin proposed a very
gradual evolution.
That's not what we observe.
>>REGINA: That's not true.
>>LARSON: We observe
huge quantum jumps--
>>REGINA: Exactly
>>LARSON: --again, just like
what we're talking about.
Everywhere you look in nature,
you'll see these quantum jumps.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
One final question
because people say,
oh, I've tried to change
my reality many times,
and I read the
law of attraction.
And I even watched
the video, too.
And it didn't work out
for me necessarily.
And so what would
you say to that?
How would you differentiate
out the processes
of law of attraction,
and you don't
have to worry about
bashing anything or anyone,
just staying with principles.
>>LARSON: OK.
Well, I haven't explored
the law of attraction
per se that much myself,
so when I work with people,
I do coaching, and I
usually work one on one.
What I'll observe
is they might have
some kind of a stuck
belief area or some issue
in their environment, and I'll
work specifically with them.
So there can be wildly different
problems for different people.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, your own
stumbling blocks
of worries about the
future, for example.
That will kind of shut down
the process and it's stress.
>>LARSON: Yeah, you don't
want to be worrying.
You've got to give up worry.
Worry has no place.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>LARSON: You need to
focus on gratitude.
I'd rather focus on what people
should be doing because that's
so important is to get
into that grateful state--
look back on your previous
day, week, month, year.
Be grateful for what you did
that has made you so happy now,
that's helping you feel more
in service, more on task,
more with a sense of meaning.
And you may think that
nothing, I haven't done that.
But I invite you to look closer.
>>REGINA: Any final thoughts?
>>LARSON: Well, I like
to invite people to ask
how good can it
get because then it
gets the imagination fired up.
And that's true
in any situation,
whether it's good, bad, or sort
of middling, just invite to see
how good can this get.
>>REGINA: Why not?
The potential is
there just as much
as how bad can it get, right?
>>LARSON: That's right.
>>REGINA: So on this I agree
with you 100%, totally.
Cynthia, I love your work.
I love what you do, and you
have just a lovely countenance
about you, a very kind
of angelic presence
to help guide people back
into how good can it get.
>>LARSON: Oh, thank you.
>>REGINA: Thank
you for joining us.
>>LARSON: It's been such a
pleasure being on the show.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Again, Cynthia's book is titled
"Quantum Jumping," which can
be found at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]